# RTEdbg Demo Code

Demo projects have been created to demonstrate the use of the RTEdbg function library - see the **[List of all demo projects](https://github.com/RTEdbg/RTEdbg?tab=readme-ov-file#Demo-Projects)**.

Most of the code has been developed and tested using the STM32CubeIDE (GNU C toolchain). Several projects also include IDE settings for Keil MDK and IAR EWARM. Support for the popular J-Link and ST-LINK debug probes has also been implemented. The *Simple_STM32H743* demo *"TEST RTEgetData"* folder contains sample batch and configuration files for demonstrating the RTEgetData data transfer utility - see also *[RTEgetData repository](https://github.com/RTEdbg/RTEgetData)*.

The **STM32H743.CubeMX** folder contains the contents of the project as generated by the STM32CubeMX code generator. This content was used as the basis for the **STM32H743** and **Simple_STM32H743** projects. Using a tool such as Winmerge, programmers can check what has been added or changed based on the base version of the project.

STM32CubeIDE project notes: The STM32CubeIDE v1.15 or higher include ARM GCC 12 or higher default toolchain. A warning "*\*.elf has a LOAD segment with RWX permissions"* is displayed during the project compilation. 
Add the "-Wl,--no-warn-rwx-segment" linker option under project settings <br>
 &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; `Project Properties` => `C/C++ Build` => `GCC Settings` => `MCU GCC Linker` => `Other flags` <br>
to suppress the warning or make the necessary changes to the linker file.

**Disclaimer:** The STMicroelectronics (STM32CubeIDE) and NXP (MCUXpresso IDE) tools and demo boards were used to develop and test the demo code because the author owned the boards and not because these companies participated in or supported the project. The ARM MDK Community Edition and the size-restricted version of the IAR EWARM toolchains were also used to test the compatibility of the RTEdbg libraries and tools with them.